# 1430 or Roman Keycard

- A 4NT bid usually asks for key cards. 
- A key card is an ace and the trump king. 
- There's a total of 5 key cards in a deck.
- A 4NT bid can be used to ask for key cards and confirm a fit.

## What is the trump color

The trump color is one of the following, with priorities:
- The suit in which the first fit has been agreed on
- The suit of the last natural bid committed by a team member

Ex:
- 1♠ - (p) - 4NT : Trump is spades (confirming fit)
- 1♥ - (p) - 1♠ - (p) - 4NT : Trump is spades (confirming fit)
- 1♥ - (p) - 1♠ - (p) - 2♣ - (p) - 4♣ : trump is clubs (confirming fit)
- 1♥ - (p) - 2♥ - (p) - 2♠ [game try] - (p) - 4NT : trump is hearts   -- To discuss 2♠ seems reversed

## Responses

- 5♣ : 1 or 4 key cards
- 5♦ : 3 or 0 key cards
- 5♥ : 2 key cards and deny trump queen    
- 5♠ : 2 key cards andtrump queen   

## After

  - 5NT is the count of kings, excluding the trump king. Responses are:
    - 5♣ : 0 kings
    - 5♦ : 1 king
    - 5♥ : 2 kings
    - 5♠ : 3 kings

## Queen asking
We play queen asking only for majors, after the 5♣/5♦ to 4NT, bidding the next colour is asking for Q.
- e.g. 1
- 1♥-p-4♥-p 4NT-p-5♣-p 5♦(♥Q asking) - p - 
- Responder: 5♥ = no ♥Q; 5♠ = with ♥Q and ♠K; 5NT = with ♥Q and no K (not including ♥K); 6♣ = with ♥Q and ♣K; 6♦ = with ♥Q and ♦K
- e.g. 2
- 1♥-p-4♥-p 4NT-p-5♦-p 5♥(to play) 
- e.g. 3
- 1♠-p-4♠-p 4NT-p-5♣-p 5♦(♠Q asking) - p - 
- Responder: 5♥ = ♠Q and ♥K; 5♠ = no ♠Q; 5NT = with ♠Q and no K (not including ♠K); 6♣ = with ♠Q and ♣K; 6♦ = with ♠Q and ♦K
- e.g. 4
- 1♠-p-4♠-p 4NT-p-5♦-p 5♥(♠Q asking) - p - 
- Responder: 5♠ = no ♠Q; 5NT = with ♠Q and no K (not including ♠K); 6♣ = with ♠Q and ♣K; 6♦ = with ♠Q and ♦K; 6♥ = ♠Q and ♥K; 

## When NOT to use
- Opener opens 1NT  -- To discuss how about 1NT-p-4♦-p-4♥-4NT?

## Asking for key cards in minor

- When a player shows a minor suit (no matter when opening or responding) and his partner raise to four in the minor (no matter if opponents intervene or not and no matter if the fit has been previously or not agreed), and when this raise is clearly a jump, then this means key cards asking in minors.
- 4NT can also be used when the previous in not available, but it's more tricky.

-- to discuss, after finding that we don't have enough key card for level 6, how can we end up at 5NT. 


♠♥♦♣
